well in an exclusive interview with Al
jazer US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin discussed the war in Gaza and
the prospects of a ceasefire deal aler
Jalal Chada sat down with him for a
one-on-one Hamas submitted a response uh
to uh the proposal seeking some um
amendments how do you assess the um um
the response so far just to step back
for one second uh 12 days ago um
president Biden laid out this proposal
and in that
time almost the entire world came out in
support of it uh including the United
Nations security Council but also the
Arab League virtually every country in
this region and well beyond um Israel
accepted the proposal Palestinian
Authority uh accepted the proposal uh
Hamas was the one answer we were waiting
for and the answer that we got last
night uh that was submitted to um cutter
was submitted to Egypt uh and to us as
the mediators in this process
unfortunately was not the yes that
everyone else had provided uh it was um
looking for more changes to the uh to
the agreement including uh changes on
items that Hamas had previously accepted
so the hard reality is um we could have
a ceasefire we could have maybe had a
ceasefire 12 days ago uh but we don't in
this moment because Hamas has not said
yes we have I think some changes that
Hamas is looking for that are workable
that we can uh try to uh uh close the
gap on there are others that are not
workable so we have to see in the days
ahead uh whether we can actually close
the gaps I think that um uh the gaps are
are bridgeable but just because they are
doesn't mean they will be ultimately
Hamas has to decide everyone else has
decided Hamas is not what does not
workable for you and for the Israel well
I can't get into the details you
understand that given the sensitivity of
the negotiations um we're not going to
talk about the the details but what I
can say is this the um proposal that
President Biden laid out 12 days ago was
virtually identical to one that Hamas
had accepted uh and put forward itself
on May the 6th so there's no reason why
uh this uh agreement should not be
reached the only reason would be Hamas
continuing to try to change the terms
but here's
what's the reality the reality is as
this negotiation is going on during the
12 days that it took Hamas to respond
the world wasn't standing still Gaza
wasn't standing still people were
suffering every single day uh
Palestinian children women and men
suffering every single day so from my
perspective from our perspective it's
time to stop all of this haggling and
back and forth and start a ceasefire
Hamas said the priority is to stop the
war um what information did you receive
from um prime minister benam Netanyahu
during your meeting with him a few days
ago in Israel um uh concerning the the
permanent ceasefire in Gaza so what I
can tell you from my conversations with
the Prime Minister Netanyahu was a
reaffirmation of Israel's acceptance of
The Proposal that's on the table and
what does that proposal have in it it it
says first of all that there'll be an
immediate ceasefire immediate and in
that during that immediate ceasefire um
Israel will pull its forces back from
populated areas in Gaza will surge more
humanitarian assistance into uh Gaza um
Palestinians living in Gaza will be able
to return to their neighborhoods their
homes if their homes are still intact
anywhere uh in Gaza and during that
initial Phase 6 weeks both both parties
Israel and Hamas commit to negotiate
toward a permanent ceasefire with the
understanding that uh the initial
ceasefire will continue as long as those
negotiations are going on and this is
backed by the United States it's backed
by cter it's backed by Egypt this is the
quickest most effective path to a
durable ceasefire and that means an end
of the an end of the war it also opens
up so many other possibilities for where
we want to go um to try to get a truly
durable piece for everyone in the region
and one place that we believe it's
important to go is the realization of
Palestinian State how how do you plan to
address the situation now what are the
next steps so I've met over the last uh
two days with qari and Egyptian
counterparts we've been uh intensely
engaged with uh with all of our
colleagues who've been working as
mediators on this agreement uh we have
to continue to analyze the document and
then see if um over the coming days we
can find a way to bridge the gaps that
have emerged because Hamas wouldn't say
yes what are the assurance that your
Administration can offer to both parties
to um in order to uh proceed and
finalizing the agreement well I think
the the the assurances first of all are
that the the three countries that have
been mediating this the United States
qar and Egypt stand fully behind it and
will stand behind it and we'll we'll
make sure that both parties to the
agreement make good on the commit ments
that are in the agreement second I think
there's a there's another Assurance here
which is the power of the fact that
virtually the entire world stands behind
this agreement it's pretty rare these
days to get the United Nations security
Council to speak with an almost
unanimous voice 14 votes in favor not a
single vote against and the Russians
abstaining that I think speaks volumes
to the fact that people all around the
world want to see this war come to an
end they want to see the suffering come
to an end they want the hostages
returned all of that is in the proposal
that's on the table uh meanwhile uh
Israel operation to rescue for hostages
in in nsat uh resulted in the death of
more than 270 civilians three hostages
one of them uh American uh obviously um
um um according to what uh the military
spokesman of Kasam said do you think
that uh military operations will release
and secure the hostages in Gaza first
it's it is horrible that innocent
children women and men lost their lives
in the intense uh Crossfire the battle
that took place when Israel was in the
process of trying to rescue its its
hostages uh just as it's horrific that
so many lives are being lost so many
lives are being ruined every single day
in Gaza as a result of a war that Hamas
started on October 7th um look there
shouldn't have been any hostages to
begin with once the hostages were taken
Hamas could have released the every
single day since they took them they
didn't Israel has a right to try to uh
rescue its its people um I wish that
innocence had not been lost in the in
the process but again the quickest way
to resolve this entirely the fastest way
to resolve it entirely so that the war
comes to an end all the hostages come
home and we build a durable peace is
through this agreement through this
proposal was Washington involved prior
to or during
this Israeli operation to uh rescue for
hostages inera I I can't speak to any uh
any details but of course we've um tried
to help uh the Israelis locate hostages
if we had any information of course we
provide that we want to see them come
home I think the most effective way to
bring everyone home is through an
agreement that not only brings them home
but gets an immediate cease fire and
leads to a permanent one efforts are
being made from your uh from your side
to reopen RAF uh Crossing uh have any
agreements been made with Israel to
reopen to manage the crossing to prevent
a severe famine uh in Gaza especially in
the north we're working on that every
single day we uh we want to see Rafa
reopened uh just as we want to make sure
not only that more humanitarian
assistance is getting uh to Gaza but
that once it's in Gaza it's getting
effectively distributed to people who
desperately need it we were at a
conference yesterday in Jordan that
brought the entire region and actually
many countries from around the world
together to do more for the Palestinians
who are desperately in need uh the
United States pledged another $400
million uh we are by far the single
largest country contributor uh to
Palestinians any country on Earth uh and
we've now since the start of uh of the
war in Gaza contributed uh nearly $700
million uh and uh $2.2 billion during
the course of this Administration uh but
it's imperative that not only are the
resources there but that there are ways
to get it into Gaza and once it's in
Gaza move it around to people who need
it we've had progress in in recent weeks
in in the north where the israeli's open
Crossings and more is getting in there's
a route from Jordan uh that goes
directly so that trucks can move from
Jordan through Israel to The Crossings
um many goods are coming in through
ashod Port but just as that was
happening the situation reversed in the
South with the closure of as a result of
the operations around Raa so yes we want
to get that open as quickly as possible
uh I can tell you we're working really
around the clock with the Egyptians with
the Israelis to find a way to get an
agreement to reopen it Mr blinkin after
visiting Israel lately where you met
with uh Minister uh guns yeah uh how do
you assess the current uh internal
situation in Israel uh following the
resignation of Gant and Eisen from the
Civil War look it's really not uh for me
to comment on uh Israeli politics these
are decisions for the for the Israelis
to make these are decisions for the
individuals to make about their
participation or not in the government
decisions for the Israeli people to make
about uh about their government um
Minister Gans is someone I have great
respect for we've worked uh closely
together and so and he leads uh a major
party so of course he's someone I'm
going to talk to just as I'll see people
in the in the government uh the
opposition leader y Leed it's important
for us to be talking to everyone so that
we have the clearest possible reflection
of what people's views are throughout
Israel and across Israeli Society your
your Administration bluntly rejected any
occupation of Gaza after War that's
right um how do you envision the future
in Gaza who's going to be in charge uh
uh on what you call it the next day so
this is this is critical because
um in order for this this for to end uh
we also have to be be ready for that and
ready for what comes next for what
happens on the day after how do we uh
look at governance uh how do we look at
security how do we look at the
Reconstruction which is going to be a
massive undertaking over these last four
or five months I've been Consulting
intensely with Partners in the um in the
Arab world uh with the Palestinian
Authority including just over the last
two days precisely on these questions
the day the day after plans and without
going into any details now uh we're
we're at a point and I mentioned this
earlier today where we are going to be
be putting forward ideas concrete ideas
for what we believe should happen how we
uh help organize things so that uh there
can be a day after that actually uh
deals with all the challenges that Gaza
will face that Palestinians will face
even once once the conflict ends uh last
question uh Mr blinkin about to the West
Bank um settlers violence increases in
West Bank especially after October the
7th how do you assess the the situation
there we've been deeply concerned about
this and as you as you know um we uh
have taken steps to um sanction uh
extremist uh settlers who've engaged in
acts of violence or
intimidation um and will as necessary to
continue to do that but we have real
concerns about about that uh and beyond
that I think life in the uh the West
Bank already challenging and difficult
has gotten
even more difficult as people are not
able to go to go to jobs uh that they've
had as movement is um is more restricted
uh and uh as we see pressure being
exerted from uh the uh extremist
settlers so this is something that not
only is a deep concern to us but it's
also something we we've taken action on
um beyond all of that look we are
working every day to bring this war to
an end to bring the suffering of people
to an end to bring the hostages home to
put us to put everyone on the path to a
more durable peace more durable security
and a big part of that is getting this
agreement I think that's the most
critical step but there's something else
that's so critical in this moment and
it's so hard what I've seen over these
last eight months and of course it
predates the eight months but it's been
intensified is something I've talked
about before um but it's this poison of
dehumanization
the inability of all sides to see the
humanity in the other and when that
happens when Hearts Harden um it becomes
very very hard uh to do the good things
and it becomes very easy to justify the
bad things so one of the things that we
have to do we have to find a way to do
is to remember the humanity in in each
other because that's what it's all about
when I see
children little boys little girls lose
their parents in Gaza and are on their
own um that hits me as hard as uh a
little boy or little girl who lost his
or her parents on October 7th there's no
hierarchy of suffering it's all about
real human beings and that's the thing
we have to have in our minds every
single day as we work to bring this to
an end but not only bring it to an end
get to a to a better place um a place
where Israelis and Palestinians can
actually live side by side in peace and
security I am convinced I'm convinced
that that's not only possible it's
absolutely necessary U but the first
step the first step is getting the
ceasefire getting this uh war in Gaza to
end and building from
there make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaer